docs/installation.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Installation
permalink: /installation/
nav_order: 3
---

# Installation

You may download the [SLSA3](https://slsa.dev) compliant binaries for Linux, macOS, and Windows from our [releases page](https://github.com/google/osv-scanner/releases).

## Package Managers

[![Packaging status](https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/osv-scanner.svg)](https://repology.org/project/osv-scanner/versions)

### Windows Scoop

[Windows Scoop](https://scoop.sh) users can install osv-scanner from the [official bucket](https://github.com/ScoopInstaller/Main/blob/master/bucket/osv-scanner.json):

```bash
scoop install osv-scanner
```

### Homebrew

[Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) users can install [osv-scanner](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/osv-scanner) via:

```bash
brew install osv-scanner
```

### Arch Linux

Arch Linux users can install osv-scanner from the official repo:

```bash
pacman -S osv-scanner
```

### Alpine Linux

Alpine Linux users can install osv-scanner from the official repo:

```bash
apk add osv-scanner
```

### OpenBSD

OpenBSD users can install osv-scanner from the official repo:

```bash
pkg_add osv-scanner
```

## Install from source

Alternatively, you can install this from source by running:

```bash
go install github.com/google/osv-scanner/cmd/osv-scanner@v1
```

This requires Go 1.21.4+ to be installed.

## Build from source

See our [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/google/osv-scanner/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for instructions on how to build from source.

## Verifying Builds

Each of our releases come with SLSA provenance data (`multiple.intoto.jsonl`),
which can be used to verify the source and provenance of the binaries with the [`slsa-verifier`](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-verifier) tool.

E.g.

```bash
slsa-verifier verify-artifact ./osv-scanner_1.2.0_linux_amd64 --provenance-path multiple.intoto2.jsonl --source-uri github.com/google/osv-scanner --source-tag v1.2.0
```

## SemVer Adherence

All releases on the same Major version will be guaranteed to have backward compatible JSON output and CLI arguments.
However, features prefixed with `experimental` (e.g. `--experimental-call-analysis`) might be changed or removed with only a Minor version change.

Commit message:

Update docs for 1.8.0/1.8.1 (#1058)
Had to fix a bunch of merge conflicts :face_with_diagonal_mouth:

---------

Signed-off-by: dependabot[bot] <support@github.com>
Signed-off-by: Hayley Denbraver <denbraver@google.com>
Signed-off-by: Omri Bornstein <omribor@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Tuan Anh Tran <me@tuananh.org>
Signed-off-by: Rui Chen <rui@chenrui.dev>
Co-authored-by: Rex P <106129829+another-rex@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Jukka Taimisto <jtaimisto@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Mend Renovate <bot@renovateapp.com>
Co-authored-by: dependabot[bot] <49699333+dependabot[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: josieang <32358891+josieang@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Hayley Denbraver <denbraver@google.com>
Co-authored-by: Giovanni Bozzano <giovanni.bozzano.1996@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Xueqin Cui <72771658+cuixq@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Gareth Jones <Jones258@Gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Jahan Chaware <89186322+geekNero@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Holly Gong <39108850+hogo6002@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Billie Lynch <29699289+billielynch@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Omri Bornstein <omribor@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Rob Ramsay <robert.ramsay.nz@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Dana Sherson <robot@dana.sh>
Co-authored-by: Rex P <rexpan@google.com>
Co-authored-by: DavidKorczynski <david@adalogics.com>
Co-authored-by: Oliver Chang <oliverchang@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Tuan Anh Tran <me@tuananh.org>
Co-authored-by: Omer Cohen <git@omer.io>
Co-authored-by: Max Moroz <dor3s1@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Pierre Pronchery <khorben@defora.org>
Co-authored-by: Éric Falconnier <eric@zentral.com>
Co-authored-by: Rui Chen <rui@chenrui.dev>

docs/installation.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Installation
permalink: /installation/
nav_order: 3
---

# Installation

You may download the [SLSA3](https://slsa.dev) compliant binaries for Linux, macOS, and Windows from our [releases page](https://github.com/google/osv-scanner/releases).

## Package Managers

[![Packaging status](https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/osv-scanner.svg)](https://repology.org/project/osv-scanner/versions)

### Windows Scoop

[Windows Scoop](https://scoop.sh) users can install osv-scanner from the [official bucket](https://github.com/ScoopInstaller/Main/blob/master/bucket/osv-scanner.json):

```bash
scoop install osv-scanner
```

### Homebrew

[Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) users can install [osv-scanner](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/osv-scanner) via:

```bash
brew install osv-scanner
```

### Arch Linux

Arch Linux users can install osv-scanner from the official repo:

```bash
pacman -S osv-scanner
```

### Alpine Linux

Alpine Linux users can install osv-scanner from the official repo:

```bash
apk add osv-scanner
```

### FreeBSD

FreeBSD users can install osv-scanner from the official repo:

```bash
pkg install osv-scanner
```

### NetBSD

NetBSD users can install osv-scanner from the official repo:

```bash
pkg_add osv-scanner
```

### OpenBSD

OpenBSD users can install osv-scanner from the official repo:

```bash
pkg_add osv-scanner
```

## Install from source

Alternatively, you can install this from source by running:

```bash
go install github.com/google/osv-scanner/cmd/osv-scanner@v1
```

This requires Go 1.21.11+ to be installed.

## Build from source

See our [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/google/osv-scanner/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for instructions on how to build from source.

## Verifying Builds

Each of our releases come with SLSA provenance data (`multiple.intoto.jsonl`),
which can be used to verify the source and provenance of the binaries with the [`slsa-verifier`](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-verifier) tool.

E.g.

```bash
slsa-verifier verify-artifact ./osv-scanner_1.2.0_linux_amd64 --provenance-path multiple.intoto2.jsonl --source-uri github.com/google/osv-scanner --source-tag v1.2.0
```

## SemVer Adherence

All releases on the same Major version will be guaranteed to have backward compatible JSON output and CLI arguments.
However, features prefixed with `experimental` (e.g. `--experimental-call-analysis`) might be changed or removed with only a Minor version change.
